72

4

THE CONSTITUTIONS OF

Subordination duly maintained among the Superiors themselveS,
of whom some are subject to others, and of inferiors towards
them, pertains to this virtue of Obedience, so that all who reside

. in any House or College should refer to their local Superior, or

Rector, and permit themselves to be ruled by him in all things.
But they who reside apart in any province in various places must
refer to the Provincial 01 301113 local Superior nearer at hand;
as they shall be commanded. But all local Superiora or Rectors
shall hold frequent communication with the Provincial, and con-
duct themselves in 311 things according to his pleasure.· In the
same way shall the Provincials behave to the General. For
thus, subordination being observed, union which entirely depends
upon it, will by the Grace of God be maintained.

If any one shall seem to be the author of division or dissension
among those ‘who live together, or with their Head ; he shall be
separated with all diligence from that congregation, as a plague
which will infect the whole, if an immediate remedy be not ap-
plied.

On the part of the General, these are the qualities which con-
duce to this mental union, and with which, as is set forth in the
Ninth Part, he ought to be endowed: and provided with these, he
shall do his duty to every member of the Society,the duty, namely,
of Head, namely, from whom the influence necessary to the office

γ assigned to him shall descend : and thus, from the General, as

8

from the Head, all the power of the Provincials shall issue, and
through them to local Superiors, and through them it shall reach
individua] members : 30 3130, from the same Head (or at least
from his deputation of authority, and with his approval) shall
the missions proceed. Let thus much suffice on the communi-
cation of the powers of the Society. For the more inferiors
depend upon their Superiors, the better the love of Obedience ⁴*
and Union will be preserved between them.

And to the end that position may be more conducive to the 111-

tercourse of the head with its members; it will be most proper

that the General should chiefly reside at Rome, where 113 can

enjoy the readiest intercourse with all other places of the Society.

Provincials also shall settle for the most part where convenient

communication may be held with the subordinates, and with the‘
GeneraL so far as it can be arranged in the Lord.

The chief bond of union respectively of the members with one

