32

THE CONSTITUTIONS 01³·

services of any one endowed with good natural abilities will be
useful in proportion to his attainment of solid learning in the
faculties above-mentioned.

The Rector shall consider and determine of the time to be spent
on any of these sciences, and when to proceed to more useful
things, after a fitting examination. ⁴
Let them follow in each faculty the safer and more approved
doctrine, and those authors who teach it: the care of this shall
belong to the Rector, who shall follow that which is established
throughout the Society to the greater glory of God.

 

HOW Tm: SCHOLARS MAY BE Asamum IN succussruuff
STUDYING THESE FACULTIES.

CHAP. VI.

Tuu- the Scholars may make the greater proficiency in learning,
let⁴ them in the first place labour to watch over the purity of
their souls‚ and to maintain the proper object of their studies,
aiming at nothing else in their literas-y pursuits than the divine
glory and the advantage of souls; and in their prayers let them .
often beg for grace, that they may improve in learning to this
end.

Let them besides seriously and constantly resolve to apply their
thoughts to study‚ and assure themselves that they ean do no-
thing more acceptable to God in the Colleges‚ than if with the
intention above expressed‚ they give themselves diligently to
learning. And even though they never call into exercise what
they have learned, let them persuade themselves that to have
undertaken the labours of study‚ as is fitting, out of mere
obedience and charity is a work of great merit in the sight of
the divine and supreme Majesty.

Let all impediments which distract the thoughts from study be
removed, whether of devotion, and mortification, which are
undertaken exorbitantly, or without due order, or of cares and
occupations which arise at home from domestic duties, or abroad
in conferences‚ confessionS, and other duties towards our neigh-
bours: so far at least as they may be declined in the Lord. For
it is praiseworthy that these employments be deferred, however
pious,' until their studies be completed, that hereby they may

