8 THE coxvs‘m‘rumons 011·

01³· THE IMPEmMENTs TO ADMISSION INTO THE SOCIETY.

CHAP. ΙΙΙ.

1 Amnouon charity and the love of souIS, in which this Society
exerts itself according to the end of its Institute, comprehend
all classes of men, in order to promote their spiritual advantage„
and assist them in obtaining salvation in the Lord‚ yet, as to
admission into the body of Society, it ought not to adopt any
others than those whom, as aforesaid, it shall judge available to
the special object of the Society.

2 Of impediments to admission; there are some which altogether
exclude those who would enter; for which many and weighty
reasons move us in the Lord‚ These are as follow,

3 To have separated at any time from the bosom of the holy
Church, by ‹lenial of the Faith amongst infidels, or by falling
into errors contrary to her, in which he shall have been censured
by public sentence; or to have departed from the unity of the
Church after the manner of schismaticS.

4 To have committed homicide3 or to be infamous for enormous
crimes,

5 To have assumed the habit of any Order; or to have become a
hermit at any period in the monkish habit.

6 To be bound by the bond of matrimony, or legal servitude.

7 To be affiicted with any complaint of the head, which may
obscure or weaken the judgment; or if he have any observable
disposition towards it, as is discoursed more largely in the
Examen.

8 Other impediments, though taken singly they do not altogether
exclude from the Society‚ yet render him less eligible who
desires admission; and the defect may be of so great moment,
that it would not conduce to the service of God, that any should
be received with it.

9 The secondary impedimentS‚ of which we are now treating, are
such as these. As relates to internals3 passions or affections
which do not appear to be governable 3 or a habit of sinning, of
which no great hope of amendment may be entertained.

10 A motive less direct than is right for entering a Religious
Order; as blended- with some merely human object.

11 UnsteadinesS, or notable fickleness of mind, by which the

